---
title: "24"
date: 2021-04-26T23:13:06+10:00
type: post
tags: []
---

I'm 24 now.

I recognise that I compare 2021 and 2020 a lot. There were a lot of profound moments last year that can be broken up into specific themes - each with their own priorities and concerns. And it's interesting to think how, though the day and month is exactly the same, changing 1 number in the year can result in different themes. It seems like opposite ends of a coin. This goes to show how time is relative. On one hand, a year can be short. On the other, especially due to all the up's and down's 2020 brought in both societal and personal life, it can be long. 

For example, this time last year, I didn't celebrate my birthday. I was in a transition period where I failed to invest in my social circles, and a lot of friendships languished. Now, I have various close groups of friends. 

Being 24 also feels weird. For me, 22 and 23 are the more awkward years, because they follow 21, an age number glorified thanks to the permeation of US culture. I guess I never imagined being 24. I can imagine myself at any other number in the 20's, but just not 24. Maybe it's because, when I just started in my 20's, I knew a lot of people who were 24. So possibly it feels surreal to reach the same age as my 'mentor' peers. 

That's enough reminiscing about the past. What about the future?

Honestly, I'm looking forward to it. Over the past year, I've become more and more comfortable with myself. I think that my personality has a number of dual aspects, and I'm becoming comfortable in reconciling the two, rather than rejecting one for another. As a result, I recognise there's a lot of things I want to (and can) achieve, or at least experience. 

However, at the same time, I do recognise that I need to be more patient with myself. Success is more guaranteed and maintained when there's consistent practice behind the effort. If success was like a skyrise building, then it can only get taller when the foundation is solid. Otherwise, it'll collapse on itself. 

---

So, Brian, enjoy every moment and be grateful. It took you a while to get here. It took a lot of self-doubt, time and effort. It cost you a bit too - there were moments where you got hurt, sometimes unnecessarily due to your ignorance and naivety. Yet, all these experiences helped to mould who you are right now, so be grateful. The craziest part to all of this is that you've just started, it's not even the finish line. So there'll continue to be moments where you are uncomfortable or get hurt. But, Brian, you're a human, not a leaf that gets blown around by the wind. You get to be in control, so you can decide how to interpret the events that get thrown at you.


You're 24 now.

